{
    "title": "Files in fixed-standard and variable-SPANNED formats",
    "linkTitle": "Files in fixed-standard and variable-SPANNED formats",
    "weight": "330"
}You can transfer files in fixed-standard and variable-spanned formats while respecting their specific characteristics. This transfer mode is subject to a certain number of restrictions.

Fixed-standard format files
---------------------------

Fixed-standard format files are transferred like fixed format files. They can be exchanged between all Transfer CFTs.

The fixed-standard format, and the conformity if necessary to ASA or MACHINE jump codes, are only assured between two Transfer CFTs if they integrate support for these functions, kernel 2.3.0 and modification A230017. Transfer CFTs operating at earlier release levels can receive fixed-standard files, in fixed format, after installation of compatibility upgrade A230018.

Variable-spanned format files
-----------------------------

Variable-spanned format files are transferred in physical block image mode only between two Transfer CFTs.

Files generated by the IEBCOPY utility and transferred by Transfer CFT are interchangeable between all versions of Transfer CFT.

However, there are some restrictions when using variable-spanned format files with Transfer CFT:

- VBS files with an LRECL=X are not supported.
- VBS indirection files are not supported (for example, a list of files: fname=\#&lt;vbs_filename&gt;, or a broadcast list: cftdest id=broadcast,fname=&lt;vbs_filename&gt;).

Release resource for receive transfers by owner
-----------------------------------------------

It is not typically mandatory to switch users to release a resource. To activate a switch during FREE, set the `..UPARM(CNFENV) FREE_AS_USER` variable to 1.

Receive a file in multi-volume compressed SMS dataset v2 format
---------------------------------------------------------------

To avoid an ABEND 737-48 when receiving a file in multi-volumes compressed SMS dataset version 2 format, you can use the following workarounds:

- Add the keyword `',FEOV=NO' `to the FNAME or WFNAME  on the CFTRECV.
- You can also use the environment variable `FEOV=NO file ..UPARM(CNFENV)` to manage FEOV for all CFTRECVs.

****Related topics****

****[Transfer CFT z/OS general performance concepts](../../zos_performance)****
